Add documentation for extending the expiration date of the CA certificate (#528)
voxpupuli/voxpupuli.github.io: _docs/extending-expired-ca-cert.md

The script performs the following steps:

1. Sets up a temporary SSL environment.
2. Generates a new CA certificate with the expiration set 15 years into the future.
3. Writes the new certificate to the directory returned by:
  ```
  puppet config print --section master cacert
  ```

The new file will be named using the format: `ca_crt-expires-<NEW_END_DATE>.pem`. This allows you to distinguish it from the currently active certificate without overwriting anything by default.

## Steps After Running the Script

1. Examine the end date of the new certificate by executing:

```
openssl x509 -in <PATH_TO_NEW_KEY> -noout -noout -subject -issuer -enddate
```

Confirm the issuer matches your existing CA and that the expiration date is 15 years in the future.

2. Back up the current certificate and install the new one:

```
# Assuming the directory where the CA is stored is /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca
mv /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crt.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crt.pem.bak.$(date +%F)
mv <PATH_TO_NEW_KEY> /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crt.pem
```
3. Restart the OpenVox server.
```
systemctl restart puppetserver
```

# OpenVox agents

## Agents on OpenVox 8 or newer

> Agents running Puppet 8+ will automatically fetch the updated CA certificate according to the [ca_refresh_interval](https://github.com/OpenVoxProject/openvox/blob/main/references/configuration.md#ca_refresh_interval) setting.

Reviewer: "OpenVox agents of version 8 and higher"...

---
layout: post

> title: Extending Expired Puppet CA Certificate

Reviewer 2: I guess it apply the same way with OpenVox packages.  Someone suggested to use the wording "OpenVox / Puppet", which kinda make sense.  In a title I would remove the "/ Puppet" to keep it short.

date: 2025-08-06
summary: How to extend the expiration date of the Puppet CA certificate
---

> ## Using a Bolt Module

Reviewer 2: Same with OpenBolt / Bolt.

> If you're using Bolt in your environment, there's a
> [ca_extend](https://github.com/puppetlabs/ca_extend) module designed for this
> task. Follow the module’s documentation to perform the extension in a supported
> and automated way.

Reviewer 2: I think we are moving to "one phrase per line" it the markdown files, and the rest of the file seems to use it:

```suggestion
If you're using Bolt in your environment, there's a [ca_extend](https://github.com/puppetlabs/ca_extend) module designed for this task.
Follow the module’s documentation to perform the extension in a supported and automated way.
```

## Manual Process

The [ca_extend repository](https://github.com/puppetlabs/ca_extend) also includes a standalone [extend.sh](https://github.com/puppetlabs/ca_extend/blob/main/files/extend.sh) script that can be run manually to generate a new CA certificate with an extended expiration date.

The script performs the following steps:

1. Sets up a temporary SSL environment.
2. Generates a new CA certificate with the expiration set 15 years into the future.
3. Writes the new certificate to the directory returned by:
  ```
  puppet config print --section master cacert
  ```

The new file will be named using the format: `ca_crt-expires-<NEW_END_DATE>.pem`. This allows you to distinguish it from the currently active certificate without overwriting anything by default.

## Steps After Running the Script

1. Examine the end date of the new certificate by executing:

```

> openssl x509 -in <PATH_TO_NEW_KEY> -noout -text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
openssl x509 -in <PATH_TO_NEW_CERT> -noout -subject -issuer -enddate
```

```

Confirm the issuer matches your existing CA and that the expiration date is 15 years in the future.

2. Back up the current certificate:

```
# Assuming the directory where the CA is stored is /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca
cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crt.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crt.pem.bak.$(date +%F)
```
3. Restart the puppet server.
```
systemctl restart puppetserver
```

# Puppet agents

## Agents on Puppet 8 or newer

> Agents running Puppet 8+ will automatically fetch the updated CA certificate according to the [ca_refresh_interval](https://help.puppet.com/core/current/Content/PuppetCore/Markdown/configuration.htm#ca_refresh_interval) setting.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure about what happen if the CA has expired. There is some Trust On First Use when you initially get a CA certificate, but if the local copy is expired will it ignore it?  That would be quite terrible IMHO…  Maybe worth testing.
